So that's almost it for classes for now,
obviously we'll see classes in many places throughout the course
so there are plenty of other opportunities to practice with them.
There is one additional, very new feature which I don't want to hide from you though. It's extremely new,
browser support is pretty slim right now but will get better
and since this is a future oriented course, you'll learn it right now already so that we can use it
in the future
and in Chrome thankfully, already today
and that would be private fields, properties and methods, so that private term might not tell you much.
Until now though I can tell you we only worked with public methods and public properties and fields
but we can actually also work with private properties and fields and methods.
Now the idea behind public properties and methods is that we can access them from outside of the class
and object and
that's what we did in some cases already.
You typically want to make everything public which needs to be accessed from outside,
so the things you worked with in your other code. An example would be if you have a product and there
you have a buy method, which we don't have in our example
but if you have another app and that should probably be triggered from outside the product object because
the place where you work with your product object is probably the place where a user can buy it.
You also on the other hand have some logic, some methods or some properties which you need inside of
an object but not outside of it,
so the things which you need to make your object work and which you don't really need to trigger or
work with from outside, some hardcoded fallback values or some class specific logic.
Now that's very abstract,
here are some concrete examples in our code, for example products here in the product list.
It's only used inside of that product lists class or in the object created based on the class and not
from outside of it. The place where I create my product list here, I don't even store it in a constant
or in a variable because I'm not interested in it,
so I don't do const list and then set list products to something
and actually I also don't want to allow it because if this would be possible and it is possible right
now, then if another developer works in our project, he might think that setting products like this should
be reflected here on our page
but it turns out that setting it like this will only change the products stored in the object but will
have no impact on the rendered HTML because in the product list, we have no setter on products that
would trigger a UI update as we do it on the shopping cart, instead if you would set products from outside
the class, nothing would happen. Fetch products is the only method inside of the class which actually
changes something there
and which then also updates the UI by calling render products.
So I want to make sure that we can't even set the products variable or property to be precise from outside
because it could lead to cases where you think you changed something but it's not reflected on the UI.
That's a perfect use case for a private property, product should only be available from inside product
list and we can achieve this in Javascript by adding a hash symbol in front of that.
Now this is such a new feature that my IDE doesn't even support it,
it will work though despite my IDE complaining though because normally indeed, that would be an invalid
character,
you can't add anything but dollar signs and underscores to your variable or property names. Well the
hash symbol is a new exception with this specific meaning inside of a class or inside of an object
where it then turns this or it sets this to a private property.
You then also have to use the hash symbol when you access it,
so here for example this hash products is set equal to that or then also here in render products,
we refer to this hash products and also down there,
this hash products and this hash products length and again you can ignore the errors for now
and with that, we'll now have a situation where if I would store the list here and I would try to do
console log list hash products, like this and I save that and I reload,
I get an error that a private field must be declared in an enclosing class,
so essentially I can't use it from outside.
So this fails
now, if we remove that code however, you'll see it now generally works
but I get a different error and that error is related to our base class calling render in the end,
that base class of course does not have hash products,
instead only our subclass here has it
and private properties are only available in that class where you define them, not in some base class
or in some subclass and therefore here when I call the super constructor, I'll also set rendering to
false and manually render and I'll just call this render here, important
do that before you fetch the products because there, we'll then try to render the products
so we need to render the list first
and yes therefore of course refactoring that and making sure that render is part of the base class
doesn't make much sense here because I override it in most cases anyways but it was a good practice
and when we introduced it, it made sense,
now however it of course doesn't make that much sense.
I'll leave it there though for reference and use this approach where I tell the base class that it shouldn't
call render,
instead I call render myself and therefore I do that from inside the class where that is defined, so
where hash products is defined and with that if we reload, this again works.
Now again this shows you how you can add private properties, very new feature, will of course be supported
by IDEs in the future as well and can also, even though it doesn't look like it here with all these
errors but can also lead to clearer and cleaner code which makes your intentions clearer, where you can
avoid that some fellow developer or maybe you in the future if you come back after a couple
of months accidentally change code or change parts of objects or classes from outside of them
as I showed you before when you should only work with them from inside the class, when you have a property
that really only can be used from inside that class and therefore from inside the object that's built
based on the class.
Now you will also be able to have private methods in the future,
for example fetch products is a method we only use from inside there, so we can also add a hash symbol
in from that and call this hash fetch products
but that's not even supported in Chrome yet as you can tell and therefore here I can't show this to
you, in the future,
this will be available as well.
So it's also something following the same logic as with private properties, methods which should only
be called from inside a class, from inside an object can be marked as private
by adding this hash symbol in front of their name.